# Workflow for How I Made My Post-Tenure Review Reflection

## Step 0: Preliminary Thoughts

As I mention in [Section 2.2]((ptrr.html#learning-to-code)) of my Reflection, given that we academics are largely interested in the content of our work, of our thinking, anything little bit of effort that helps us focus in on that is to greatly prioritized. Why spend a great deal of time doing things that the computer/software can automate for us? 

## Step 1: Writing Everything in Markdown

There is something about writing in Markdown that is so simple and
effortless (no doubt that\'s by design). The goal of this format that
can be used, as the main [Markdown page](https://www.markdownguide.org/)
makes clear, "to format virtually any document," seems to be
tailor-made for academics, especially those of who don\'t often work
with images or figures or graphs or plots. The goal of our work is the
text, the text itself, not the flashy figures or supporting graphs, just
the text, so a format where one can focus as much as possible on the
actual content of the document seems to be an absolute necessity. Of
course, it\'s a wonderful benefit that something as simple as Markdown
can be easily converted ([pandoc](https://pandoc.org) is the conversion
tool of choice, of course) to pretty much any other format or file type
you want is an added benefit as well.

As some might know, it can be difficult to take things originally
written in Microsoft Word and other programs and easily get those texts
to live on the web---Markdown makes it a breeze. Wanting to hyperlink
something in a Word document can itself be time-consuming: selecting the
text where the hyperlink will appear, CTRL+K (or ⌘K for those on Macs),
pasting the link, etc. Markdown makes it so easy, just wrap the text in
\[\] and then follow it with a parenthesis that contains the actual
hyperlink: \[Here\'s a link\](link address goes here). Very simple. Of
course, for those academics that love the footnote, that\'s easy too:
just stick the footnote in brackets with a caret: \[\^1\] and then,
anywhere else in the same document, adding \"\[\^1\]: Here's the text
of your footnote," will get exactly what one wants. Again, very
simple—and very easy once one gets the hang of it.



